---
parent: Release Notes
title: 1.0.x
---

# Upgrading to 1.0.0

## Worktree Structure

## Removing `react-scripts` dependency

With the release of `1.0.0` we have removed the dependency of `craco` and
`react-scripts` from the `modular` codebase. This is really exciting for us as
it will allow for greater development as well develop our ability to scale to
working with larger monorepos and developing solutions for cross-app builds /
typechecking, etc.

The Create React App (CRA) controllers in `react-scripts` will no longer be
installed with `modular`. This is a significant breaking change as users will
not be able to rely on all of the CRA conventions. While most features are
retained we have streamlined the features which we expose.

### TypeScript setup

This file is created in `src/react-app-env.d.ts` of each `app` which is
generated in `modular`. Previously this would reference `react-scripts` to
introduce global typings for React Apps. This file is responsible for
configuring the types of static assets which are imported in TypeScript files.

When upgrading to `1.x` of `modular-scripts` this file must be updated.

```typescript
- /// <reference types="react-scripts" />
+ /// <reference types="modular-scripts/react-app-env" />
```

### Eslint webpack plugin

The `eslint` webpack plugin for app builds has been disabled for several
versions now. However this release of `modular` removes this functionality
entirely in favor of programatically linting your files. This provides improved
build performance and linting performance since users can utilize eslints
caching functionality to perform incremental linting.

## Building by workspace name

In `0.x` of `modular-scripts` APIs were designed around the relative path on
disk of each workspace, and commands followd this same convention. With the
release of `1.x` commands are now based around the workspace name. This can
cause some differences - especially when using nested package structured within
your modular worktree.

For example, given the following work tree with package names in brackets
alongside

```
packages
├─ sample-app
│   └─ package.json (sample-app)
└─ nested
    └─ another-app
        └─ package.json (@nested/app)

```

Previously two build `sample-app` and `nested/another-app` you could run

```bash
modular build sample-app nested/another-app
```

With `1.x` of modular this command now needs to reference the package names
directly, i.e.

```bash
modular build sample-app @nested/app
```

### Flat output structure

The output structure of builds preserves the input structure to build commands.
For the above example the `/dist` folder structure would update from

```
dist
├─ sample-app
└─ nested
    └─ another-app

```

to a new flatter structure based on package name

```
dist
├─ sample-app
└─ nested-app
```

# Patch Versions

Patch versions of this release do not have a dedicated summary. For details of
patch releases, please visit
[the GitHub releases page](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/modular/releases).
