---
parent: Release Notes
title: 2.0.0
---

# Modular 2.0.0

Today we're releasing Modular 2.0.0. This is not a significant release but helps
us take stepping stones towards where we would like to take modular in the
Future.

At it's core modular is a tool for working with and building UIs for financial
services. This means it's focussed on excellent developer experiences, pragmatic
configuration-less tooling and delivering simple workflows for it's users.

## No New Feature / No "Real" Features Removed.

Modular 2.0.0 doesn't bring any new features but instead starts to focus on
aligning modular with the rest of the node.js ecosystem and removes features
which were Beta and unstable.

How are we doing this?

## Removing Beta APIs

In this release we have removed two Beta APIs which were available through
modular:

1. Programmatic access to the modular APIs
2. Support for compiling `bin` fields in `package` type in modular.

**Why have we done this?**

We've done this so that we can focus on the _core_ experience of using modular
as a command line tool for building UIs. This is focussing on **super-fast**
build speeds for developers of apps and views, but also simplifying the workflow
for package pubishers. We've written a guide on how to expose a `bin` from your
package using Modular - but we should emphasise that there **shouldn't be a need
to**. Modular is a tool for working with UIs - not for generic Node.JS
development.

# Merged Changes

- [#908](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/modular/pull/908) Add exports fields
  to all public packages.
- [#918](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/modular/pull/918) Remove programatic
  API.
- [#986](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/modular/pull/986) Chunk size logging
  parity for esbuild strategy.
- [#989](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/modular/pull/989) bugfix: remove
  `setupEnv.js` call in testing which is a duplicate of modular's environment
  setup.

# What's Next?

Next we're looking at two main focus areas

## ESBuild Experience

We're strong believers that `esbuild` / `swc` will form crucial parts of the
experience for modular in it's next iterations. We are looking to invest in the
esbuild pipeline to bring parity to the development experience that we have with
the webpack build chain that exists.

## Library Development Improvements

Along with aligning the packages which we publish with the Node.JS `#exports`
standards we want to bring this option to developers who publish their packages
with Modular. This change will see us move to using `esbuild` for transpilation
of code.

# Patch Versions

Patch versions of this release do not have a dedicated summary. For details of
patch releases, please visit
[the GitHub releases page](https://github.com/jpmorganchase/modular/releases).
